it's like one you don't need two homes
two you don't need
you know homes that are that expensive
three is just cheaper to rent because
when you start parking into home that
you're living it's not really an
investment anymore you're living you
could say whatever the gains are it
doesn't matter you're still living in
that so you're not realizing the gains
well on the flip side just putting it in
the s p let's say clock's nine percent a
year compounded
it's just better because you can take
the gains and start living off a portion
of it
welcome to the show I'm Andy Higgins and
today I'm taking you inside the family
office of my friend Neil Patel who is 37
years old and if you're watching or
listening to this you may wonder how
does a 37 year old have his own family
office and Neil normally I ask guests to
introduce themselves but I'm not going
to do that I'm going to introduce you
myself because I love this intro that I
wrote out in my notes Neil Patel is a
New York Times best-selling author The
Wall Street Journal calls him a top
influencer on the web Forbes says he's
one of the top 10 marketers in
Entrepreneur magazine said he created
one of the 100 most brilliant companies
I'm not done Neil was recognized as a
top 100 entrepreneur under the age of 30
by President Obama and a top 100
entrepreneur under the age of 35 by the
United Nations Neil that is that's got
to be the all-time best introduction on
my show welcome to the show thanks for
having me
is sad to read that and to let my
listeners and viewers in on this I met
Neil I want to say it was back in 2006.
yeah we're dating both of ourselves here
I'm thinking how old was I then whatever
I was 23 or 24 and you're a couple years
younger than me and the reason I loved
reading that intro
I feel like when I met you it was at a
marketing conference you were kind of
like
the new kid on the Block if I can say
that and then
a year went by and like at the next
marketing conference I saw you you're
already huge and I remember thinking
even then like what the heck is going on
with this guy
back then youth work for Patrick right
yep I worked for Patrick Gavin that's
right yep was it texting ads or position
one I forgot what the company name is he
he has had so many companies that I was
involved with and honestly I learned so
much about entrepreneurship and private
equity
from pasture yeah that's right he likes
raising money when for his deals and
then he uh he tends to flip to private
equity and then flip again and yeah good
for him he yeah he's very Patrick is for
me was a great role model and I just I
learned a lot from him implicitly just
by watching I've also learned a lot from
you Neil like as we discussed before I
clicked record I stalk you on social
media just because I want to kind of
soak up you know how you do things I I
think that's Sometimes the best way to
learn like you can Google how to do
marketing you know and get tips but you
can also just watch people that do it
well and like see what kind of content
marketing they do how did you get your
start though so that we're we're going
backwards now yeah back to the beginning
walk us through those first couple years
of your career
so my first couple years as a career and
similar to you I started really young so
there really wasn't any corporate jobs I
started when I was 16 so there really
wasn't any corporate jobs but um I
started doing creating websites getting
traffic got good at it wasn't good at
making money was just good at getting
traffic to a website right more people
that go to a website more likely to make
money although I couldn't figure out the
money portion and uh eventually I got
really good at the traffic part
frustrated about the rest so I would
call every day I got home from school I
would call all the people that were
placing ads on Google because you could
see if it was labeled like a sponsored
or paid ads I don't know what the
verbiage that they used back then and
I'll call them they're like I'll do
marketing for free I'll get you traffic
if I get you traffic pay me if I don't
don't pay me it wasn't really like a
guarantee pitch it was more so like if
you're happy pay me if you're not don't
when you're a little kid you're wasting
hours watching TV or playing basketball
so I'd waste sour on websites most
people ended up paying me I got a good
start there built an agency the agency
started making a few million bucks when
I was a kid but it crashed really hard
in 2008 during the financial crisis
right with all the subprime mortgages
and stuff like that but luckily before
the crash a few years before that I
started creating software and I created
an analytics company and during the 2008
crash the analytics company was
continually growing month over month it
didn't really see any pullback and was
this was this crazy egg or kiss message
crazy okay so then I shifted resources
and I didn't shift it by choice I
shifted by more so had no choice uh
because the agency was continually
declining in revenue and profitability
and the software company was growing so
stop doing agency work kept doing
software the soft opera companies I
think crazy is like 16 years old now we
still have it but when businesses just
get old and if you create a good enough
product or good enough service you don't
have to be the best
it kind of just grows through word of
mouth if you do it long enough and you
can adapt and listen to the market and
give them what they want uh it has to be
good though you're not going to grow by
Word of Mouth yeah you have to have a
great good product or good service and
you have to continue adapt and keep up
with the competition
but that's worked out
well for us and some of it did really
well and uh overall the winners made up
for the losers plus more and then my
latest company NP digital got back into
that space because we were just getting
so many leads
and have fun time doing that I think
we're now at 750 employees I think we'll
be maybe a thousand by the time next
year only only
750 employees kneel I mean that's huge
our competition has like some of them
have like 60 000 or a hundred thousand
employees right so we still feel really
tiny
wow wow so you know so many we're
talking about your family office today
and so many family offices do actually
have their Genesis not only in
entrepreneurship but in that software or
technology world where you have an
entrepreneur who builds up a successful
company in software technology or some
kind of startup and then has a liquidity
event in that liquidity event is the you
know the Genesis or or the external
event that leads to the creation of the
family office so for you obviously
you're you know earning a lot of income
having a lot of success early in your
life in your 20s
was there a liquidity event like like
looking
small liquidity here and there
I've been doing Angel Investing for 16
years now so I've had some wins from
that and then just kept recycling the
money uh I've been at LP and a lot of
Angel funds then Venture funds and
private Equity Funds and then again you
recycle the money and then my businesses
spit off Millions a month in free cash
flow so when you're making millions and
millions a month it adds up I'm 37 but
when you've been making that for a while
you kind of have a lot of money to
invest over time right so then just
probably like how many homes you're
gonna buy I'm in a rental right now I
was telling my wife I'm like you know
the ideal thing to do is just never buy
any homes or real estate
um we do have homes but you know I don't
know how much we have in homes but let's
call it 20 to 30 million dollars liquid
in real estate right that is our Equity
value cash and real estate and bought it
all recently so it's pretty much cash
there's no gains really uh
um but I was telling my wife I'm like
you know renting a house for 20 30 grand
a month whatever you want is so much
cheaper than just buying because even if
you make 10 15 on the money you know
rent doesn't cost that much and
everyone's like oh you're home and real
estate goes up in value over time and
I'm like
I made more money in the stock market or
Angel Investments and Entrepreneurship
than I ever have in real estate I've
done quite a bit of real estate uh I
just hate it as an investment class it's
illiquid you know it's a pain to manage
and the returns suck compared to a lot
of the other asset classes but it is
steady
yeah and you know well Neil I'm not
gonna it's hard to argue with the guy
who says that you know I'm earning
several million a month and I have
trouble deploying it fast now hard to
argue with that but I would say real
estate I think can be a good investment
but what you're pointing out
the difference between I'm buying homes
for myself and treating those in as an
investment Bingo versus I'm investing as
an LP or cogp or whatever in an external
fund that's a it's a fundamentally
different animal right it it is and it's
how do you put a price tag on having a
home that uh you like right and the
reason I don't know how much I put in a
home is we're building a home here in
Vegas and some in a rental it's almost
done and then we're building one in
Beverly Hills and I don't really know
how much money I'm in because every
month you get bills and then you just
pay your bills right uh I have a rough
ballpark but either way I look at it and
it's like one you don't need two homes
two you don't need
you know homes that are that expensive
three is just cheaper to rent because
when you start parking into home that
you're living it's not really an
investment anymore you're living you can
say whatever the gains are it doesn't
matter you're still living in that so
you're not realizing the gains well on
the flip side just putting it in the s p
let's say clock's nine percent a year
compounded
it's just better because you can take
the gains and start living off a portion
of it versus having your money tied up
in real estate I could also start
getting mortgages and stuff like that
although the rates are really expensive
right now but um just not a fan of real
estate for living in and buying it I
don't mind real estate as an investment
class still not I still don't prefer it
I still prefer Tech like a great example
is is
we bought a business last year in
February for 8.6 right now
conservatively made some changes to it
uh added an end to one of my businesses
as a token
and I probably were conservatively in
this bad Market 20.
so like I look at that as like I'm not
going to make those kind of returns on
real estate right but we've been able to
rinse and repeat tuck-ins Investments
and stuff like that when we have
expertise so that already I'm pulling
out this theme which you know I talk
with a lot of family offices and to me
this is a recurring theme DJ van Curren
says if you know one family office you
know one family office right and a lot
of times when you look at the patriarch
and uh it's funny Neil to call you the
patriarch but you're the patriarch of
your family office right
um
a patriarch oftentimes or matriarch a
family office will be have an investment
philosophy that reflects the skills
personality life experience career
experience of that patriarchal matriarch
so you have you've made you've generated
enormous income and enormous success in
marketing and Technology
so it sounds to me like that's
kind of a theme in your family office
then is and why wouldn't it be because
you have expertise you have access to
deal flow you have connections and
insights in those sectors right
that's right I I literally invest in
what I know like a great example of this
is uh my buddy Andy he created Adventure
fund called unlock I think bedroom
Partners I call it the Andy Liu fund I
don't really know the fun name I think
it's unlocked and uh I did Angel deals
with them and a ton of on a ton of them
over time
and I believe if I'm not mistaken I
could be quoting inaccurately here but
the numbers around here from the last
time I had a conversation with him his
cash return as an angel investor not
paper returns forget paper returns
everyone talks about paper Returns what
really matters what your cash returns
and what you're seeing in your bank
account and it takes a while with Angel
Investing but it's around 40 a year
which was amazing even if you drop it
down let's say he's not having as good
of a year and it's dropped down the
average of 30. right so I think you do
like something like 90 plus deals I was
co-investing in a lot of the deals I
don't know how many but let's take a
guess around maybe 10 deals and I had
good track record with him doing the
diligence and him hitting me up be like
hey Neil do you want to put in a check
and I'm like yeah sounds good right and
that's typically what I look for because
I don't want to go through the legal
docs or anything like that you want
someone else to lead and figure out the
deals and you just want to uh ride along
the you know right along the journey
with them and give them checks and I
look for people with really amazing
I looked for people with really amazing
track records because then you know you
don't really have much to lose there and
yeah maybe not every single deal works
out some work some don't but uh it's a
numbers game and I did really well with
my angel Investments with him and then
he was just like yeah I'm gonna do a fun
and I was like yeah sounds good you know
I'm in and I don't know what I put into
very first one this was a long time ago
maybe like 250 Grand uh it was a small
fund so I couldn't put in too much I
technically I could have but typically
as an investor you don't want to be a
really big portion of someone's Capital
right you don't want to be the sole
person you want them to have money from
a lot of people and then his second fund
it grew a little bit in size it was
still small
um I think I put in a million bucks in a
second fund
but yeah he's he's done a really good
job and I just look for people who have
continually done really really well and
I just keep betting on the same person
over and over again
yeah that uh that makes sense I mean
it's another theme from the family
office World regardless of sector area
Focus whether it's real estate venture
capital
private Equity you know family offices
they like long-term Partners they're
very collaborative at some point you
know the an issue if you can call it an
issue it's not a problem but an issue is
you need to start recycling capital and
we'll get to that later Neil but I kind
of want to rewind a little bit so you're
in this ramp up in your 20s you're
earning tremendous income do you mind
sharing like what age at which you are
actually an accredited investor and and
you were like I'm now able to invest in
these kind of private Equity deals
private funds kind of where you started
your journey LP maybe 20 21 19 somewhere
another
2021 that's pretty young okay so you
started doing alternative investing in
age 20 and 21 kind of yeah 21 makes
sense I've been an angel investor for
more than 16 years so 2021 somewhere I'm
almost 38. so for you it was kind of
your entrepreneur by day and then you're
you're in income is growing and then
you're basically recycling your income
into a variety of Investments including
private Investments doing that by night
or kind of in parallel with your
entrepreneurship so you know well not
even by night here is the key to my
success as alternative investor I still
spend almost all my time as an
entrepreneur
so many of my friends are entrepreneurs
who are older than me right like we both
know Patrick Gavin he's older I know
I've never done a deal with him but
they're like that age I don't know how
old Patrick is but I'm guessing he's at
least 10 years older than us right oh
maybe five maybe five he just he just
has uh he looks very wise and
distinguished but he's a young guy okay
so most my friends and I haven't seen
him in a very he's got you know what
Neil he's got a great beard I think
maybe just having a great beard makes
you look but no I think I think Pat is
is maybe three or four years older than
me so five or six years older than you
but I I get it and and so yeah but but
most of my friends are like in that 50
plus range okay right so they're at the
tail end of Entrepreneurship they've
been investing in ages so one I've
invested in a lot of their companies and
made money from that to as they do angel
Investments they'll be like hey we're
looking to fill up this round I put my
money in uh can you throw in some money
it's a good deal and with a lot of them
because I've known them for so long I
don't really get that much details of
the company it'll be like five minutes
or like just an email with a few
paragraphs and I'm like sounds good and
I usually just ask them how much are you
in right because I usually know some of
my friends net worth So based on that I
can figure out all right if if like
someone's putting in 25 Grand and
they're worth a half a billion dollars
like yeah whatever right and New York
Neil can I stop you there and just thank
you for being honest because you know
I'm a big proponent of due diligence and
I encourage LPS to due diligence I do
due diligence but in my experience most
LPS don't do due diligence or or their
due diligence process kind of is like
yours it's more gut feel
relationship Trust of the other party I
just want to thank you for just like
being honest about that like not BS in
me and saying well I put them through
due diligence process when you're like
no it's based on relationship and Trust
yeah like if so one of my buddies has a
similar net worth and they're like oh
I'm in three million dollars I really
believe in this I spent you know months
and months of like okay cool and I don't
even have to get that much in detail the
moment they tell me they're in three
million dollars and I know how much they
have roughly uh it's easy right I'm like
well yeah someone never you put three
million all right here's a million or
two million dollar check because they
wouldn't have put that much money in it
unless they believe in it in the game
skin in the game you're asking what's
your skin on the game and that's that's
a big
mover for you
it's usually the biggest mover and
here's the thing the skin in the game is
how much skin into the game do they have
percentage-wise right like if they're
worth a hundred billion dollars and
making up that number I don't have any
friends who are worth 100 billion and
they put in a million dollars it's like
me putting in 50 cents or a penny in
something right or a dollar or whatever
the ratio would be that doesn't mean
anything to me but most my friends have
been entrepreneurs for a long time and
investors for a very long time and we
all share a lot of the deals so I'm just
writing checks
and uh over time it's added up and it's
the easiest way I found my deals and
when I put money in with my friends if
they lose my money it's not like I get
pissed off the key is not to be upset
that the deal went South because a lot
of them will the key is to know hey when
you do a lot of these deals you're
putting your money in let me know
because this is a numbers game right and
the ones that hit usually hit hard
um but there's different asset classes
as well I tend to focus a lot on Tech uh
what my friends like Tech is going to
have more you know unicorns like in real
estate you're more gonna you put your
money in you get 2x back you know a deal
goes bad you might get One X back you
know sometimes you get nothing but like
real estate there's going to be like
yeah you can find a way trust me but
there's like you're right you could have
a zero but typically if you buy a
property and let's say you're just
buying it with cash to keep this simple
for 10 million dollars as a group of
people and a bad economy it's hard for
them to go from 10 million to zero right
with the mortgage and stuff yes you
could lose your money and be wiped out
but typically if you're buying the whole
thing outright with real estate just
generally speaking unlike Tech it's very
rare for something to go up from like
100 million and then to zero which is
habitat attack you have the power law
distribution which is where some of
these are unicorns you know 100x or
1000x returns and then you you're much
more you're you're less flapped by you
know the strikeouts it's a little bit
more like baseball right where even a
great hitter is is batting 300 and
you're happy you're like well this guy's
a great hitter if he's batting 300 so
to kind of continue on this journey
though so you're in your 20s you're
earning more income your businesses are
very successful you're taking you know
you're starting to earn Millions a month
or or at least a year eventually per
month and you're recycling this money
with some of your entrepreneur friends
that you trust into Angel investments
into private deals into you know Venture
Capital Tech type Investments and other
private Investments at what point
you know was there a point I guess where
it all just got to be like too much like
where you're getting you know 25 50k
ones every year where you kind of go
well wait a minute
I need to professionalize this or I
guess what was the kind of that first
Milestone or was there a point where you
were like I need an advisor or I need a
full-time CPA or the the the first part
was I was doing a lot of these like 25
brand checks because that's where I
started off as an angel I think I had
maybe one or two at 12 and a half or
somewhere small like that but I was
starting off typically at 25 then
started increasing to 50 and then 100
and then it kept growing from there then
I got a bookkeeper named Beth and Beth
would just keep track of it because I
would have a spreadsheet of here's the
investment I made you know here's uh
when it sells and it would just be gain
or a loss
and it started getting messy after a
time a bit and then I started doing and
then I realized this is a lot of work to
start going through all these Angel
deals so then I started writing bigger
and bigger checks doing less of them and
then I started just becoming an LP
because I had friends who were doing a
lot of them and I'll try to push them
like my buddy Andy I'm like one day you
should create a fun and he sold this
first company to I think it was called a
quantive which then aquana got bought
out by Microsoft that was I think a
multi-billion dollar acquisition his
portion wasn't but he still did really
well for his investors and then his
second company sold to I believe it was
Vizio the TV company
so then hit a good track record there he
had a better track record as an angel
investor and I'm like dude you should
just create a fun I'm tired of writing
all these checks like it's just easier
to be like here's a lump sum just go and
do whatever you want give me one K1 dude
don't give me 20K ones right and it's a
pain in the butt right like I'm doing my
taxes literally this week and I won't
get them done but like I don't know how
many k ones I sent my guy but I think I
probably sent him 50 to 60k ones no joke
right like I have a lot of K ones like
I'm just sending tons and tons of them
and eventually you want to consolidate
and have less and less but you know the
amount of documents I sent him for like
interest and 1099s and all this kind of
stuff the wages and W-2s or whatever
they're all called I probably sent them
over
100 plus documents of Investments and
gains and losses and